What was the verb to give?
Do you remember the verb to give?
Dar.
Good.
So how would you say I will give?
Dare.
Good.
And we will give?
Daremos.
Good.
Then he will give or she, you formal, it
Taran.
Good.
They you guys.
Taran.
And you informal
Good.
How would you say will you guys give it to me?
Now me, meh
Can also mean to me, so we don't need that to.
And out of these little words me and what is the word for it
Lo.
So out of these little words, me and Lo, the personal one, the one referring to the person comes first.
Will you guys give it to me?
Melo Taran.
Good Melo Daran.
What if this it was a feminine thing
Mela taran.
Good.
And I should clarify this isn't a way of requesting like in English, will you guys give it to me?
Like can you guys give it to me?
This is more of a literal question.
Are you guys going to give it to me?
Will you guys give it to me?
If you want to get this meaning of will you like can you?
You will just use can you in Spanish
The word for something is algo.
A-L-G-O.
Algo.
Good.
So how would you say they will give you something?
And we mean informal you.
Remember the thought process.
The thought process must be first who is doing the verb.
Who is doing the verb?
They will give.
That's the first place.
Daran.
You something.
Te darán algo.
Good.
How would you say they will give it to you?
Still speaking informally.
They will give it to you.
Te lo darán.
Good.
They will give it to you.
How would you say they would give it to us?
They will give it to us.
So it's nos lo daran.
Good.
Nos lo daran.
They will not give it to us
No nos lo daran.
Good.
So we saw that me te nos can mean me or to me, you or to you, us or to us.
Or even in some other circumstances for me or for us, for you, me, te nos can also mean myself, yourself, and ourselves.
For example, you can say I give myself and you would just use me.
So how would you say I give myself
Me doy.
If you want to say I realize in Spanish, you say me doy cuenta.
Cuenta is something like account.
To give yourself account of, to take account of.
That's how you say I realize in Spanish.
If you say realizar, it means to realize like a project
to bring into fruition.
No?
So you say I give myself account cuenta.
So how would you say that?
Me doy cuenta.
This means I realize.
You realize talking informally?
Good.
Te das cuenta.
How would you make that a question?
Te das cuenta?
Good.
This is used a lot conversationally.
Te das cuenta?
Do you realize?
Do you know what I mean?
Do you know what I'm saying?
Good.
We realise.
We give ourselves account.
Nos damos cuenta.
Good.
So me can mean to me, for me, from me.
It can mean myself.
Te can mean you or to you, from you, yourself, and nos
us, to us, or ourselves, or each other.
We said that you might hear nos vemos.
We see each other as a way to say ciao, goodbye, nos vemos, we see each other later.
See you later.
Now you get all of these different meanings with me te and nos.
But the ones beginning with el, so lo, la, los, las
They do change to get these different meanings.
So when we say to him or to her or to you fuman or to them
We go from lo and la and los and last to le and les.
So lo and la becomes le and los and las becomes les.
For example, Lod doi means I give it.
Now if I want to say I give him, what I actually mean is I give to him.
In which case here we must change to le
If I say I give her, I don't mean I'm going to pick her up and give her to somebody.
I probably mean I give to her.
In which case we're not going to use la
We're going to use le.
So let's practice this a little bit.
So we said dar is to give.
Now if you say I give it, how do you say that?
Lo doi.
And I give them, and you still are talking about the things you are giving.
Los doy.
But now if you want to say I give them and you mean to them, so remember you might not even say this too in English.
But what you mean is I give two them, then this loss is gonna change.
Less doi.
Good.
The word for something was Algo.
Algo.
So let's say I'm giving them something.
Les doy algo.
Good.
So this is to them.
To speak, to speak, began with a silent H.
I don't know if you remember this verb.
Hablar.
Good.
So how do you say I speak?
How would you say I have spoken?
I have
Eh.
Yes.
So I have spoken.
Eh.
Is it a planto?
No, this is speaking and spoken is very similar.
E hablado, good.
I have spoken to him
Le he hablado.
Good.
I have spoken to him or to her, huh?
Could be either.
Now what if you wanted to say we have spoken to him?
Le hemos hablado.
Good.
So this le it could be the law to le or the la to le
So many meanings are included here.
It could be we have spoken to him, we have spoken to her, we have spoken to you formal, speaking to male or female.
Le hemos hablado.
How was he has or she has or it has from Aber?
Ah.
Ah, good.
H A.
Ah.
He has spoken
Good.
They have spoken.
They have spoken about it.
They have spoken it.
Lo an applado.
Good.
They have spoken to him or to her.
Le an applaudo
Good.
Le han hablado.
They have spoken to them.
I mean one them has spoken to a different them.
Les an applado.
Very good.
Les an hablado.
Good.
So we had ver to see
The version for IC was a little bit irregular.
How was it?
B good.
A little bit irregular.
It's not bo as it should be.
V-O, it's uh B O V-E-O.
Good.
So if you want to say I see it or I see him or I see you talking formally
Love.
What if you saw a feminine thing or if you saw her or if you saw you formal talking to a female?
La veo.
What if you were seeing las casas?
What if you meant I see them?
And you're referring to feminine things.
Las veo.
And what else could it mean then?
Other than I see them talking about things?
I see them meaning women.
Or what else?
you females.
Yeah, I see them females, I see you guys, females, or I see them feminine objects.
Good
We said that the kitchen is la cosina.
And to make the verb you can just stick an R on Cosina and you get
Cocinar.
Cocinar with the accent on the end.
Now in English, if I say he's cooking me something, I can say he's cooking me something or he's cooking something for me.
Both are acceptable in English.
So we're not looking for the direct translation, we're looking for the feeling more than anything.
We want to identify the feeling of is it is it to me, is it for me, or is it directly me?
Is he cooking me?
So it's the feeling that we want to get our heads around more than the direct translation of whether we're using two or not in English
For example, I listen to him.
Here we're using two in English.
We've listened, but we don't use it with hear.
I hear him.
I listen to him.
So we're not looking for direct translation of when we're using two and four or not.
What we're trying to do is generally perceive, okay, am I being cooked?
Am I being spoken?
Am I coming out of somebody's mouth?
Or is it indirect?
Am I being cooked for?
Am I being given to?
So, like I said, with medte and nos it doesn't matter anyway because they won't change.
So if I want to say he's cooking me and I mean he's directly cooking me in the oven
Or if I mean he's cooking something for me, then the sentence isn't gonna change anyway in Spanish.
So how would you say that?
He is cooking me something.
He is cooking me something
Me cocina algo.
Good.
Now let's say he's cooking something for us.
Nos cocina algo.
Good.
He's cooking something for you, speaking informally.
So meternos we don't have to worry about them, they don't they don't change.
But if I want to say he is cooking him something, how would I say it?
Le cocina alcohol.
Very good.
How would you say he is cooking them something?
Cocina algo.
Good.
Les Cocina Algo.
What if you wanted to say he is cooking them?
And with this them you are referring to the things he is cooking, not to the people he is cooking for.
Los cocina algo.
We don't need the algo anymore.
Los cocina.
And if he was cooking feminine things like las tardas
the tarts for example how would it be he's cooking them las cocina good now if you wanted to say he's cooking them for us
And we still mean feminine things, the stay with Las Tardas.
He is cooking them for us.
How would it be
Nos las cosina.
Perfect.
We don't need four or any of this.
And we put the person one first.
Nos las cosina.
Good.
Again, what was to speak?
I speak.
I speak to him.
Le Ablo.
Leablo.
Good.
And I'm speaking to them
Les Aplan.
Good.
And they are speaking to them.
Les Aplan.
Good.